v1.5 final release: quick hits (#3249)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access.md

This functionality is new in v1.5.
:::

:::info "Model access" is not "User access"

> **Model groups and access** and **user groups and access** mean two different things. "User groups and access" is a specific term used in dbt Cloud to manage permissions. Refer to [User access](https://github.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-accessl) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Model groups and access** and **user groups and access** mean two different things. "User groups and access" is a specific term used in dbt Cloud to manage permissions. Refer to [User access](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) for more info.
```

Reviewer: hey @jtcohen6 - i updated and commited this url as it had a github one - hope you're ok with that!

Author: whoops!! yes, totally ok, thank you for fixing 🙏

This functionality is new in v1.5.
:::

> :::info Model access != User access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info Model access is not User access
```

> **Model groups and access** are dbt-core constructs, distinct from **user groups and access** in dbt Cloud. For docs on the latter, see: ["About user access"](about-user-access).

Reviewer: **Model groups and access** and **user groups and access** mean two different things. "User groups and access" is a specific term used in dbt Cloud. Refer to [User access](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-accessl)  for more info.

> **Model groups and access** are dbt-core constructs, distinct from **user groups and access** in dbt Cloud. For docs on the latter, see: ["About user access"](about-user-access).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Model groups and access** and **user groups and access** mean two different things. "User groups and access" is a specific term used in dbt Cloud. Refer to [User access](https://github.com/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-accessl) for more info.
```

Why define model `groups`?
- It turns implicit relationships into an explicit grouping

> - It enables you to mark specific models as "private," for use _only_ within that group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It enables you to designate certain models as "private" for use exclusively within a particular group.
```

## Access modifiers

> Some models are implementation details, meant for reference only within their group of related models. Other models should be accessible through the [ref](ref) function across groups and projects. Models can set an [access modifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_modifiers) to indicate their intended level of accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some models are implementation details, meant for reference only within their group of related models. Other models should be accessible through the [ref](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/ref) function across groups and projects. Models can set an [access modifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_modifiers) to indicate their intended level of accessibility.
```
